Add chrome extension docs (#1004)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/chrome-extension/create-clerk-client.mdx

---
title: '`createClerkClient()`'
description: "`createClerkClient()` allows Chrome Extension developers to access a user's session information or get a token in a service worker."
---

> The `createClerkClient()` helper initializes a new Clerk instance on demand and refreshes the session token if there is a valid, signed-in user. It can be used in a [content script](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts) or a [background service worker](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/service-workers/basics) to access a user's information or session token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `createClerkClient()` helper initializes a new Clerk instance on demand and refreshes the session token if there is a valid, signed-in user. It can be used in a [background service worker](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/service-workers/basics) to access a user's information or session token.
```

When a side panel or a popup is closed, the Clerk process that normally refreshes the user's session token every 60 seconds is no longer running, and the stored session will become stale. If a request were made 60 seconds after the side panel or popup was closed, it would fail because the session token is no longer valid. By configuring `createClerkClient()` to run in a background service worker, you can ensure that the user's session is always fresh.

## Usage

The following example:

> - Creates a background service worker that sets up an event listener to handle requests from a content script. If the request wants to interact with Clerk, the listener calls `createClerkClient()` to create a Clerk instance and refresh the session token, and then calls [`getToken()`](/docs/references/javascript/session#get-token) to get the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creates a background service worker that sets up an event listener to handle requests from a [content script](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts). If the request wants to interact with Clerk, the listener calls `createClerkClient()` to create a Clerk instance and refresh the session token, and then calls [`getToken()`](/docs/references/javascript/session#get-token) to get the token.
```

  ```typescript {{ filename: 'src/background/index.ts' }}
  import { createClerkClient } from '@clerk/chrome-extension/background'

  const publishableKey = process.env.PLASMO_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY

  if (!publishableKey) {
    throw new Error('Please add the PLASMO_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY to the .env.development file')
  }

  // Use `createClerkClient()` to create a new Clerk instance
  // and get a fresh token for the user
  async function getToken() {
    const clerk = await createClerkClient({
      publishableKey,
    })
    return await clerk.session?.getToken()
  }

  // Create a listener to listen for messages from content scripts
  // It must return true, in order to keep the connection open and send a response later.
  // NOTE: A runtime listener cannot be async.
  chrome.runtime.onMessage.addListener((request, sender, sendResponse) => {
    // This example sends the token back to the content script
    // but you could also use the token to perform actions on behalf of the user

>     getToken().then((token) => sendResponse({ token }))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    getToken().then((token) => sendResponse({ token })).catch((error) => console.error('[Background service worker] Error:', JSON.stringify(error)))
```

    return true // REQUIRED: Indicates that the listener responds asynchronously.
  })
  ```

  ### Create the tab with the content script

  1. In the `src/` directory, create the `tabs/` directory.
  1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-worker-demo.html` file.
  1. In the `background-worker-demo.html` file, paste the following code to create a basic HTML file that will house the React component for the content script.
     ```html {{ filename: 'src/tabs/background-worker-demo.html' }}
     <!doctype html>
     <html>
       <head>
         <title>Clerk Background Worker Demo</title>
         <meta charset="utf-8" />
         <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
       </head>

       <body></body>
     </html>
     ```

>   1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-work-demo.tsx` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-worker-demo.tsx` file.
```

>   1. In the `background-work-demo.tsx` file, paste the following code to create a React component with a button that will trigger the background service worker to get the token. If the token is returned, it will be displayed on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the `background-worker-demo.tsx` file, paste the following code to create a React component with a button that will trigger the background service worker to get the token. If the token is returned, it will be displayed on the page.
```

     ```tsx {{ filename: 'src/tabs/background-worker-demo.tsx' }}
     import * as React from 'react'

     export default function NewTab() {
       const [token, setToken] = React.useState<string | null>(null)

       const getToken = async (e: React.MouseEvent<HTMLButtonElement>) => {
         e.preventDefault()

         // Trigger the background service worker to get the token
         // and set the token in the state
         chrome.runtime.sendMessage({ greeting: 'get-token' }, (response) => {

>            console.log('MESSAGE RESPONSE', JSON.stringify(response))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

description: "`createClerkClient()` allows Chrome Extension developers to access a user's session information or get a token in a service worker."
---

The `createClerkClient()` helper initializes a new Clerk instance on demand and refreshes the session token if there is a valid, signed-in user. It can be used in a [background service worker](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/service-workers/basics) to access a user's information or token.

## Why use `createClerkClient()`?

> It's recommended to use `createClerkClient()` for Chrome Extension's that are configured as popups. When the popup is closed, the Clerk process that normally refreshes the user's session token every 60 seconds is no longer running, and the stored session will become stale. If a request were made 60 seconds after the popup was closed, it would fail because the session token is no longer valid. By configuring `createClerkClient()` to run in a background service worker, you can ensure that the user's session is always fresh.

Author: I would say this applies to all extensions. A user can close a side panel, or the extension may even have a side panel or popup.

Reviewer: The original copy said "The Chrome Extension SDK provides a new feature for developers for interacting with a signed in user while the popup is closed." and then was written to be centered around popups.

So are you saying that this issue (Clerk not refreshing the user's session token) occurs in side panels as well?

Author: Yes, the original content was wrong and yes, if the side panel is closed the session is not refreshed.

Beyond that an extension doesn't have to have a popup or side panel. It can just be content scripts or service workers or content scripts+service workers or any combination of the 4 things.

I would just say that it is for any extension where the developer needs to get a token or user information in a service workers, or in a content scripts via a service worker. You can add in that when a popup or side panel are closed the session is not refreshed, so this option should be used for any action outside of a popup or side panel.

> It's recommended to use `createClerkClient()` for Chrome Extension's that are configured as popups. When the popup is closed, the Clerk process that normally refreshes the user's session token every 60 seconds is no longer running, and the stored session will become stale. If a request were made 60 seconds after the popup was closed, it would fail because the session token is no longer valid. By configuring `createClerkClient()` to run in a background service worker, you can ensure that the user's session is always fresh.

Author: I'm going to hold off on this as this needs some other changes that I noted to Alexis, but good catches.

## How it works

> A background service worker runs on demand. When a request comes in from a [content script](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts) that wants to interact with Clerk, the background service worker is triggered and calls `createClerkClient()`. This creates a Clerk instance and refreshes the session token.

Author: Technically the background service worker adds a listener, so when a message is sent from the content script the listener will respond.

Reviewer: How's this?

```suggestion
A background service worker runs on demand. It adds an event listener that listens for a request from a [content script](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts). If the request wants to interact with Clerk, the listener calls `createClerkClient()` to create a Clerk instance and refresh the session token.
```

## Usage

> The following example will demonstrate how to configure your Chrome Extension to use `createClerkClient()` to ensure that the user's session is always fresh. Your application may need to interact with the background service worker from content injected into a webpage or from a new tab that your extension opens. For this example, you will create a web page that the extension will open as a new tab, and that page will have a button on it that, when clicked, retrieves the signed in user's token.

Author: "...to ensure that the user's session is always fresh."

This isn't correct. The user's session can definitely be expired. This will allow the extension to instead valid and refresh the session on demand.

Author: "Your application may need to interact with the background service worker from content injected into a webpage or from a new tab that your extension opens."

While is a valid use case and is the example, this is probably not that common in reality. This example was just really easy to setup and really clear for the docs.

Reviewer: I can remove the second part, but that was present in the document before so I kept that in so I didn't know it was incorrect.

```suggestion
The following example will demonstrate how to configure your Chrome Extension to use `createClerkClient()` to refresh your user's session token if it's valid. For this example, you will create a web page that the extension will open as a new tab, and that page will have a button on it that, when clicked, retrieves the signed in user's token.
```

Author: Yeah, that was my mistake.

> The following example assumes that you have followed the [Chrome Extension Quickstart](/docs/quickstarts/chrome-extension) and then the [Add React Router](/docs/references/chrome-extension/add-react-router) guide, but you can apply these concepts to your own application.

Author: Should this be a more obvious callout?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
> The following example assumes that you have followed the [Chrome Extension Quickstart](/docs/quickstarts/chrome-extension) and then the [Add React Router](/docs/references/chrome-extension/add-react-router) guide, but you can apply these concepts to your own application.
```

  ```typescript {{ filename: 'src/background/index.ts' }}
  import { createClerkClient } from '@clerk/chrome-extension/background'

  const publishableKey = process.env.PLASMO_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY

  if (!publishableKey) {
    throw new Error('Please add the PLASMO_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY to the .env.development file')
  }

  // Use `createClerkClient()` to create a new Clerk instance
  // and get a fresh token for the user
  async function getToken() {
    const clerk = await createClerkClient({
      publishableKey,
    })
    return await clerk.session?.getToken()
  }

  // Create a listener to listen for messages from content scripts
  // It must return true, in order to keep the connection open and send a response later.
  // NOTE: A runtime listener cannot be async.
  chrome.runtime.onMessage.addListener((request, sender, sendResponse) => {
    // This example sends the token back to the content script
    // but you could also use the token to perform actions on behalf of the user

>     getToken().then((token) => sendResponse({ token }))

Author: etToken().then((token) => sendResponse({ token })).catch((error) => console.error('[Background service worker] Error:', JSON,.stringify(error))

Adding the `.catch()` for error handling is a good addition to this example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    getToken().then((token) => sendResponse({ token })).catch((error) => console.error('[Background service worker] Error:', JSON.stringify(error)))
```

    return true // REQUIRED: Indicates that the listener responds asynchronously.
  })
  ```

  ### Create the tab with the content script

  1. In the `src/` directory, create the `tabs/` directory.
  1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-worker-demo.html` file.
  1. In the `background-worker-demo.html` file, paste the following code to create a basic HTML file that will house the React component for the content script.
     ```html {{ filename: 'src/tabs/background-worker-demo.html' }}
     <!doctype html>
     <html>
       <head>
         <title>Clerk Background Worker Demo</title>
         <meta charset="utf-8" />
         <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
       </head>

       <body></body>
     </html>
     ```

>   1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-work-demo.tsx` file.

Author: 1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-worker-demo.tsx` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the `tabs/` directory, create the `background-worker-demo.tsx` file.
```

  1. In the `background-work-demo.tsx` file, paste the following code to create a React component with a button that will trigger the background service worker to get the token. If the token is returned, it will be displayed on the page.
     ```tsx {{ filename: 'src/tabs/background-worker-demo.tsx' }}
     import * as React from 'react'

     export default function NewTab() {
       const [token, setToken] = React.useState<string | null>(null)

       const getToken = async (e: React.MouseEvent<HTMLButtonElement>) => {
         e.preventDefault()

         // Trigger the background service worker to get the token
         // and set the token in the state
         chrome.runtime.sendMessage({ greeting: 'get-token' }, (response) => {

>            console.log('MESSAGE RESPONSE', JSON.stringify(response))

Author: We should remove this line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
